<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en"><head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8">
<meta charset="utf-8">
<title>CG Internal Meeting 1 – 26 September 2022</title>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="26_09_2022-minutes_files/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="26_09_2022-minutes_files/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="26_09_2022-minutes_files/public_002.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="26_09_2022-minutes_files/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="26_09_2022-minutes_files/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="26_09_2022-minutes_files/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body data-new-gr-c-s-check-loaded="8.904.0" data-gr-ext-installed="">
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="26_09_2022-minutes_files/W3C.svg" alt="W3C" width="72" height="48" border="0"></a></p>

<h1>W3C WoT CG Internal Meeting 1</h1>
<h2>26 September 2022</h2>

<nav id="links">
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/09/26-wot-cg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="26_09_2022-minutes_files/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id="prelims">
<div id="attendees">
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class="intro">
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Cristiano_Aguzzi, Daniel_Peintner, Ege_Korkan, Kaz_Ashimura, Luca_Barbato, Philipp_Blum, Tomoaki_Mizushima</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Ege/Cristiano</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>cris_</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id="toc">
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">next CG event</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Collaboration with IG</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t03">discussion</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id="meeting" class="meeting">
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id="x003" class="irc"><cite>&lt;citrullin&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/Talks/0322-tools-ka/#6">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2022/<wbr>Talks/<wbr>0322-tools-ka/#6</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id="t01">next CG event</h3>
<p id="x014" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> what kind of next event we would like to do?<br>
<span id="x015">… we can do one about a specific topic</span><br>
<span id="x016">… we can even create an event for a summary about the current wot spec</span><br>
<span id="x017">… or we can ask other CG members to present their own projects</span><br>
<span id="x018">… any other topics to discuss?</span></p>
<p id="x022" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> I can present what I was supposed to present during TPac<br>
<span id="x023">… a temperature sensor on RIOTos</span><br>
<span id="x024">… with another node that display information</span><br>
<span id="x025">… it is a showcase of opensource solutions</span></p>
<p id="x026" class="phone s03"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> we can always present node-wot</p>
<p id="x027" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> focused on new features</p>
<p id="x028" class="phone s03"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> right</p>
<p id="x029" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> we can do this once in a while</p>
<p id="x030" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> it makes sense</p>
<p id="x032" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> do you have contact with the firebase node-wot implementation<br>
<span id="x033">… ?</span></p>
<p id="x034" class="phone s03"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> not me directly</p>
<p id="x036" class="phone s04"><cite>Daniel Peintner:</cite> he is pretty active on github<br>
<span id="x037">… probably is from japan</span></p>
<p id="x039" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> somebody from the japanese CG knows him ?<br>
<span id="x040">… seems no</span></p>
<p id="x041" class="phone s05"><cite>Tomoaki Mizushima:</cite> no sorry</p>
<p id="x043" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> do you have suggestion about the topic area?<br>
<span id="x044">… ok then let's move on</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id="t02">Collaboration with IG</h3>
<p id="x066" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> we want to promote a single image of the Web of Things to the public<br>
<span id="x067">… we want to have continuity between WoT groups</span><br>
<span id="x068">… first we have to reach an agreement</span><br>
<span id="x069">… then propose it to the WG and IG</span><br>
<span id="x070">… and finally discuss with the W3C Management</span><br>
<span id="x071">… in the current setup CG is not even mentioned</span><br>
<span id="x072">… but there are some issues</span><br>
<span id="x073">… like the website is under IG/WG but resources like tutorials, dev tools are not part of WG or IG work</span><br>
<span id="x074">… we have a maintenance issues</span><br>
<span id="x075">… onboard is hard</span><br>
<span id="x076">… can't invite people easily to provide use cases and ideas</span><br>
<span id="x077">… there are no modern tools for discussion and idea sharing</span></p>
<p id="x078" class="summary">&lt;ege shows the new setup relation graph&gt;</p>
<h4 id="t03">discussion</h4>
<p id="x080" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> what is the goal of the collaboration ?</p>
<p id="x085" class="phone s06"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> remember that community groups are free to do anything they want. WG and IG are regulated under the W3C process document<br>
<span id="x086">… my suggestion is, like with the Japanese CG, to start with a simple topic</span><br>
<span id="x087">… it easier than starting from transferring ownership from Wg/IG website.</span></p>
<p id="x092" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> we are starting work on it<br>
<span id="x093">… but now there is the question where to host these resources</span><br>
<span id="x094">… should we hand over to IG website</span><br>
<span id="x095">… or host ourselves (causing a split in the community)</span></p>
<p id="x098" class="phone s06"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> current issues slide is misleading<br>
<span id="x099">… We should rather start with the discussion on what kind of activities to be done by the CG directly.</span><br>
<span id="x100">… it makes more sense to start over with an activity list</span></p>
<p id="x101" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> we sort of have it but we decided to focused on the collaboration first</p>
<p id="x102" class="phone s06"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> Maybe it would make 
sense to think about what kind of activities or categories of the work 
items to be done collaboratively with the WoT IG/WG like Mizushima-san 
described about the WoT-JP CG during the TPAC meeting, e.g., Outreach, 
Deployment, Use Cases and Translation..</p>
<p id="x103" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Mizushima&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/wot/blob/main/PRESENTATIONS/2022-09-hybrid-f2f/2022-09-14-WoT-F2F-WoT-JP-CG-Mizushima.pdf">about WoT-JP CG</a></p>
<p id="x108" class="phone s07"><cite>Luca Barbato:</cite> it is very difficult to get an overview of the WoT</p>
<p id="x111" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> ok<br>
<span id="x112">… the repository list is not clear either</span></p>
<p id="x113" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> I can mirror repositories</p>
<p id="x118" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> I liked kaz suggestion<br>
<span id="x119">… let's focus on this point</span><br>
<span id="x120">… what should we do</span></p>
<p id="x122" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> should we create task forces inside the CG?</p>
<p id="x123" class="phone s06"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> You don't have to 
create TFs within the CG, but you need to identify what kind of tasks to
 be done by the CG. If needed, you can create a dedicated TF for each 
task item later.</p>
<p id="x129" class="phone s03"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> it might be interesting to create awesome-wot repository</p>
<p id="x130" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> there is already one</p>
<p id="x131" class="phone s03"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> ok, another thing about activities I think one of the goal should be onboard developers</p>
<p id="x137" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> ok true<br>
<span id="x138">… but about activities</span><br>
<span id="x139">… event organization</span><br>
<span id="x140">… and create developer community infrastructure</span></p>
<p id="x143" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> targeting events</p>
<p id="x161" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> we have already a lot of ambitious goals</p>
<p id="x163" class="phone s03"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> I agree, but now the next step is to decide the image to use<br>
<span id="x164">… are we CG? are we representing WoT ?</span></p>
<p id="x165" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> simple answer we can represent ourselves or our company</p>
<p id="x167" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> so which link should we give people</p>
<p id="x170" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> we can just give them two links<br>
<span id="x171">… in my previous experience</span><br>
<span id="x172">… we can just make it clear that is a community effort</span></p>
<p id="x177" class="phone s03"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> we should try to have a single image</p>
<p id="x179" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> it would be nice<br>
<span id="x180">… but the problem is, we can't enforce it</span></p>
<p id="x182" class="phone s03"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> I agree, but it wouldn't be better to give people the means to claim to be under the same umbrella?</p>
<p id="x183" class="phone s06"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> From my viewpoint, the 
policy is clear enough, so I'm not sure what is the question here. If 
you (as a participant in the WoT CG) would like to represent the WoT CG 
at some conference, you need to make a</p>
<p id="x184" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> so, as long as it is clear that our resources are not from the w3c wg/ig, we are fine</p>
<p id="x186" class="phone s06"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> for example, if you want to do a presentation at a conference<br>
<span id="x187">… you need to have a resolution from the CG</span></p>
<p id="x190" class="phone s06"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> regarding the WoT icon, it is already used<br>
<span id="x191">… and you can use it</span></p>
<p id="x192" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> I think we should</p>
<p id="x194" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/blob/main/wot-ig-collaboration.md">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>wot-cg/<wbr>blob/<wbr>main/<wbr>wot-ig-collaboration.md</a></p>
<p id="x195" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/discussions/6">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>wot-cg/<wbr>discussions/<wbr>6</a></p>
<p id="x197" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> before closing I set up a github discussion to continue talking about it<br>
<span id="x198">… also citrullin why do you want to use another logo?</span></p>
<p id="x199" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> The same logo give to the user the false impression to be in an official wot webpage</p>
<p id="x200" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> Japanese CG use it</p>
<p id="x201" class="phone s08"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> not sure</p>
<p id="x203" class="irc"><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> resolution by the WoT 
CG. On the other hand, if you (as a participant in the WoT IG/WG) would 
like to represent the WoT IG/WG at some conference, you need to make a 
resolution by the WoT IG/WG.|</p>
<p id="x207" class="phone s03"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> why don't we do just a variation of the current logo?</p>
<p id="x208" class="phone s02"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> ok if everybody is on the same page</p>
<p id="x209" class="irc"><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> s#resolution by the 
WoT CG. On the other hand, if you (as a participant in the WoT IG/WG) 
would like to represent the WoT IG/WG at some conference, you need to 
make a resolution by the WoT IG/WG.|##</p>
<p id="x210" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> we'll send updates for the next event</p>
<p id="x213" class="summary">[adjourned]</p>
<p id="x214" class="irc"><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> s#, you need to make 
a#, you need to make a resolution by the WoT CG. On the other hand, if 
you (as a participant in the WoT IG/WG) would like to represent the WoT 
IG/WG at some conference, you need to make a resolution by the WoT 
IG/WG.#</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html">scribe.perl</a> version 192 (Tue Jun 28 16:55:30 2022 UTC).</address>

<div class="diagnostics">
<h2>Diagnostics</h2>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/pubblic/public/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/community group are/community groups are/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/I prefer start with the question than 
with the issue list/We should rather start with the discussion on what 
kind of activities to be done by the CG directly./</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s|we have to focus on what kind of 
activities we want to do as CG|Maybe it would make sense to think about 
what king of activities or categories of the work items to be done 
collaboratively with the WoT IG/WG like Mizushima-san described during 
the TPAC meeting.|</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/ not really, first you start from 
activity type and then to taskforces/You don't have to create TFs within
 the CG, but you need to identify what kind of tasks to be done the CG. 
If needed, you can create a dedicated TF for each task item later./</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/scribenick cris_/scribenick: cris_/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/to be done the/to be done by the/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/what king of activities/what kind of activities/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/Mizushima-san described/Mizushima-san described about the WoT-JP CG/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/during the TPAC meeting/during the TPAC meeting, e.g., Outreach, Deployment, Use Cases and Translation./</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/afford/enforce/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s|from my view point, the conclusion is 
the w3c WG/IG people need to get a resolution from the whole group. On 
the other hand, WoT CG is not representing W3C as a whole but you can 
leverage on the same mechanism to let people represent the WoT CG|From 
my viewpoint, the policy is clear enough, so I'm not sure what is the 
question here. If you (as a participant in the WoT CG) would like to 
represent the WoT CG at some conference, you need to make a</p>
<p class="warning">Maybe present: cirtrullin, citrullin, cris, daniel, ege, kaz, lu_zero, mizushima</p>
</div>


</body><grammarly-desktop-integration data-grammarly-shadow-root="true"></grammarly-desktop-integration></html>