<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en"><head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8">
<meta charset="utf-8">
<title>WoT CG at TPAC 2022 – 13 September 2022</title>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="13_09_2022-minutes_files/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="13_09_2022-minutes_files/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="13_09_2022-minutes_files/public_002.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="13_09_2022-minutes_files/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="13_09_2022-minutes_files/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="13_09_2022-minutes_files/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body data-new-gr-c-s-check-loaded="8.904.0" data-gr-ext-installed="">
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="13_09_2022-minutes_files/W3C.svg" alt="W3C" width="72" height="48" border="0"></a></p>

<h1>WoT CG at TPAC 2022</h1>
<h2>13 September 2022</h2>

<nav id="links">
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/09/13-wot-cg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="13_09_2022-minutes_files/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id="prelims">
<div id="attendees">
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class="intro">
<dt>Present</dt><dd>Alexander_Power, Ben_Francis, benfrancis, 
Bradley_Needham, Christian_Glomb, Daniel_Dersen, Daniel_LaLiberte, 
Daniel_Peintner, Dingwei, Ege_Kokan, Fady_Salama, GeunHyung_Kim, glomb, 
herre, Hiroshi_Ota, Jan_Romann, Jeff_Waters, jeffwaters, Kang_Seukyoon, 
Kaz_Ashimura, Kunihiko_Toumura, Michael_McCool, Shinjiro_Urata</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Cristiano, Ege</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>cris_, Ege</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id="toc">
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Logistics</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Collaboration with IG and WG</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id="meeting" class="meeting">
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id="x011" class="irc"><cite>&lt;bradley&gt;</cite> p+</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id="t01">Logistics</h3>
<p id="x038" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> in the minutes we summarize people opinion and make those public<br>
<span id="x039">… let us know if you don't want to record your statment</span><br>
<span id="x040">… anybody wants to introduce himself</span></p>
<p id="x042" class="phone s02"><cite>Bradley Needham:</cite> I'm from sony, coming as an observer</p>
<p id="x043" class="phone s03"><cite>Jeff Waters:</cite> I'm an AC rep DISA, interested in different topics from W3C. Want to learn more</p>
<p id="x044" class="phone s04"><cite>Daniel Dersen:</cite> responsabile for the nordic chapter of w3c. Working on IoT and Smart cities</p>
<p id="x045" class="phone s05"><cite>Alicia Richins:</cite> interested in working together with the WoT community</p>
<p id="x046" class="phone s06"><cite>Thomas Jaeckle:</cite> I'm working for bosh, part of WoT WG. We are working on an opensource solution compatibile with WoT 1.0</p>
<p id="x047" class="phone s07"><cite>Fady Salama:</cite> Tum researcher, working on WoT and its applications on industry</p>
<p id="x048" class="phone s08"><cite>Dingwei:</cite> Interested in IoT standards</p>
<p id="x049" class="phone s09"><cite>Ben Francis:</cite> IE in the WoT WG, founder of WebThings opensource solution. Also chair of Web of Thing protocol CG.</p>
<p id="x050" class="phone s10"><cite>Geun-hyung Kim:</cite> Interested in the applications of DID in IoT and WoT</p>
<p id="x060" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> thank you all<br>
<span id="x061">… we have other w3c groups</span><br>
<span id="x062">… in particular one IG</span><br>
<span id="x063">… and WG</span><br>
<span id="x064">… IG outreach and plugfests</span><br>
<span id="x065">… WG specification work</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id="t02">Collaboration with IG and WG</h3>
<p id="x077" class="phone s11"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> we had a discussion on this topic quite a lot<br>
<span id="x078">… the actual discussion will take place in another deliverable</span><br>
<span id="x079">… we want to create a community place where everyone can join and exchange information and learn about wot</span><br>
<span id="x080">… we want to use CG for plugfests as well</span><br>
<span id="x081">… we want to reach a setup that looks like the one in slide 8</span></p>
<p id="x084" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> in the mean time we can start working on topics that we can do orthogonally to the topics of the IG<br>
<span id="x085">… we organized an Event</span></p>
<p id="x087" class="summary">&lt;Ege lists the agenda&gt;</p>
<p id="x091" class="phone s12"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> among the topics, I'd like to ask the CG to think about the relationship with IG and WG</p>
<p id="x092" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> it is in CG agenda</p>
<p id="x095" class="phone s12"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> you can organize events but the relationship should be a priority</p>
<p id="x099" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> anybody want to tell us more about what they expect about a CG around the WoT<br>
<span id="x100">… we are using the Github repository to keep track of t he issues</span></p>
<p id="x101" class="summary">cris</p>
<p id="x102" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi if you have any ideas on what kind of activities we should do, please go ahead</p>
<p id="x103" class="phone s13"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> we can develop the CG further with curated news</p>
<p id="x106" class="phone s02"><cite>Bradley Needham:</cite> I try to understand the relationship between the different groups<br>
<span id="x107">… I got that you would like to give people ideas how to use the WoT</span><br>
<span id="x108">… and teach them</span></p>
<p id="x109" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> yes</p>
<p id="x111" class="phone s02"><cite>Bradley Needham:</cite> give people levels of architecture and examples of use cases</p>
<p id="x116" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> I agree<br>
<span id="x117">… CG don't write specs but the can write use cases</span><br>
<span id="x118">… our scope is also to give back requirements back to WG</span></p>
<p id="x121" class="phone s12"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> Bradley made a great point<br>
<span id="x122">… gathering expectation is good for the CG scope</span><br>
<span id="x123">… and understand which direction to go</span></p>
<p id="x128" class="phone s13"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> there is also a teaching side in this<br>
<span id="x129">… we can write blog post</span></p>
<p id="x130" class="irc"><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> (btw, my main point is clarifying the expectations of the CG participants before diving into the possible solutions directly :)</p>
<p id="x134" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> we can ask people about their expectations<br>
<span id="x135">… in a survey</span></p>
<p id="x144" class="phone s14"><cite>Michael McCool:</cite> co-chair of WoT WG<br>
<span id="x145">… working on on polishing our specification documents for the final publication</span><br>
<span id="x146">… next charter topics</span><br>
<span id="x147">… what do you want to cover in the next phase?</span><br>
<span id="x148">… CG can be a place where we can have open discussions</span><br>
<span id="x149">… to join the WG slot you are required to be invited</span></p>
<p id="x151" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> we got feedback to use DID in WoT</p>
<p id="x155" class="phone s03"><cite>Jeff Waters:</cite> DISA member, there are many challenges in our environment<br>
<span id="x156">… I would like to provide use cases</span><br>
<span id="x157">… if you have a summary about the use cases you can addressing it would be helpful to be up to speed</span></p>
<p id="x165" class="phone s14"><cite>Michael McCool:</cite> I can do a brief summary<br>
<span id="x166">… we have a good description of network interaction</span><br>
<span id="x167">… we have a gap for geolocation</span><br>
<span id="x168">… onboarding is something that we need to tackle</span><br>
<span id="x169">… smart cities depend on geolocation</span><br>
<span id="x170">… security is also important, especially in isolated networks</span><br>
<span id="x171">… also we would like to explore time series</span><br>
<span id="x172">… no standard way to discover devices that produced a particular set of data</span></p>
<p id="x173" class="phone s03"><cite>Jeff Waters:</cite> Digital Twins, what do they mean in this context?</p>
<p id="x174" class="phone s14"><cite>Michael McCool:</cite> you can have a shadow thing that simulate and manage the connection with the real device</p>
<p id="x176" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> virtual factory<br>
<span id="x177">… simulate the production line</span></p>
<p id="x183" class="phone s14"><cite>Michael McCool:</cite> automation needs how the device interact with the enviroment<br>
<span id="x184">… this also has implications in accessibility</span><br>
<span id="x185">… we will look at standards for DT</span></p>
<p id="x188" class="phone s03"><cite>Jeff Waters:</cite> Digital Twins are a big use case in our environment<br>
<span id="x189">… mostly for prediction</span></p>
<p id="x192" class="phone s13"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> +1 for an event for Digital Twin only event</p>
<p id="x197" class="phone s04"><cite>Daniel Peintner:</cite> I'm working with IoT and smart cities in Sweden<br>
<span id="x198">… how can you achieve climate neutrality with tech?</span><br>
<span id="x199">… I believe in the open data field</span><br>
<span id="x200">… w3c is the only one that can do it</span></p>
<p id="x205" class="phone s01"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> smart cities are in our scope<br>
<span id="x206">… kaz is organizing an event</span><br>
<span id="x207">… we had small demos</span><br>
<span id="x208">… we are not imposing a standard, and we want to be compatible with existing standards</span></p>
<p id="x209" class="phone s04"><cite>Daniel Dersen:</cite> if you take data, everybody is align to DCat.</p>
<p id="x210" class="irc"><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2022/SessionIdeas#Web-based_Digital_Twins_for_Smart_Cities">Web-based Digital Twins for Smart Cities breakout</a></p>
<p id="x211" class="phone s12"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> I wanted to hear from 
you about the expectations from the WoT CG participants, but if Smart 
Cities and Digital Twins are part of your interested topics, I'd like to
 mention that I'm organizing a breakup session, see link above</p>
<p id="x212" class="phone s14"><cite>Michael McCool:</cite> we have wot breakout too, some demos</p>
<p id="x217" class="phone s14"><cite>Michael McCool:</cite> about DID, we support DID in TDs<br>
<span id="x218">… there are some interesting points in Verified Credentials and distributing keys</span><br>
<span id="x219">… that we can study in the next charter</span></p>
<p id="x220" class="phone s12"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> my suggestion is continuing to gather topics from the CG</p>
<p id="x225" class="phone s14"><cite>Michael McCool:</cite> climate neutrality we didn't addressed it directly but we have use cases for energy managment</p>
<p id="x226" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jTlSKw7VfIx5J2degldyugGwJFjxPZ_p/edit?usp=sharing&amp;ouid=106655031772979203612&amp;rtpof=true&amp;sd=true">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>presentation/<wbr>d/<wbr>1jTlSKw7VfIx5J2degldyugGwJFjxPZ_p/<wbr>edit?usp=sharing&amp;ouid=106655031772979203612&amp;rtpof=true&amp;sd=true</a></p>
<p id="x227" class="irc"><cite>&lt;jeffwaters&gt;</cite> Good discussion. Thanks for letting me participate.  I'll reach out regarding digital twin and use cases.</p>
<p id="x228" class="irc"><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> [adjourned]</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html">scribe.perl</a> version 192 (Tue Jun 28 16:55:30 2022 UTC).</address>

<div class="diagnostics">
<h2>Diagnostics</h2>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: i/in the minutes/topic: Logistics/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: i/we had a/scribenick: Ege/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: i/in the mean/scribenick: cris_/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/events/agenda/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/relation/relationship/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/topics/topics,/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/eys/yes/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/has/had/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/DCap/DCat/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/I'm or/I wanted to hear from you about 
the expectations from the WoT CG participants, but if Smart Cities and 
Digital Twins are part of your interested topics, I'd like to mention 
that I'm or/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/rrsagent, draft minute//</p>
<p class="warning">Maybe present: alicia, ben, bradley, ca, cris, daniel, ding, ege, fady, geun-hyung, jeff, kaz, mc, thomas</p>
</div>


</body><grammarly-desktop-integration data-grammarly-shadow-root="true"></grammarly-desktop-integration></html>