<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en"><head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8">
<meta charset="utf-8">
<title>W3C WoT CG Kickoff – 25 July 2022</title>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="25_07_2022-minutes_files/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="25_07_2022-minutes_files/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="25_07_2022-minutes_files/public_002.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="25_07_2022-minutes_files/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="25_07_2022-minutes_files/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="25_07_2022-minutes_files/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body data-new-gr-c-s-check-loaded="8.904.0" data-gr-ext-installed="">
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="25_07_2022-minutes_files/W3C.svg" alt="W3C" width="72" height="48" border="0"></a></p>

<h1>W3C WoT CG Kickoff</h1>
<h2>25 July 2022</h2>

<nav id="links">
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/07/25-wot-cg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="25_07_2022-minutes_files/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id="prelims">
<div id="attendees">
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class="intro">
<dt>Present</dt><dd>[Ege Korkan], Cristiano_Aguzzi, Daniel_Peintner, 
Dogan_Fennibay, Ege Korkan, Ege_Korkan, Gregoria_Monari, Junde_Yhi, 
Kaz_Ashimura, Luca_Roffia, Michael_McCool, Philipp_Blum, 
Salvatore_Cataldi, Sebastian_Kaebisch, Tomoaki_Mizushima</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>Ege, kaz</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id="toc">
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Greetings and Logistics</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Draft CG Charter</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id="meeting" class="meeting">
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id="x002" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> start the meeting</p>
<p id="x004" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> list attendees</p>
<p id="x006" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> list attendees</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id="t01">Greetings and Logistics</h3>
<p id="x008" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi you can fill the questionnaire at <a href="https://forms.gle/FkHGF2hRwf8e49Qj6">https://<wbr>forms.gle/<wbr>FkHGF2hRwf8e49Qj6</a> in order to give us a feedback</p>
<p id="x009" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi I will be back in a minute to give some time</p>
<p id="x010" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi I am co-founder of Vaimee</p>
<p id="x011" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Luca Roffia: I remember the plugfest from dusseldorf airport</p>
<p id="x012" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Luca Roffia: I believe in the impact of WoT</p>
<p id="x013" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Philipp Blum: I work in my own company, I used to be in crypto organization</p>
<p id="x014" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> ... I am interested in constrained devices, RIOT OS based</p>
<p id="x015" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> ... we have a running implementation</p>
<p id="x016" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> ... I came to know WoT while I was tinkering with Arduino, did not want to use custom protocols</p>
<p id="x017" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Michael McCool: I am co chair of WoT WG</p>
<p id="x019" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> ... also involved in robotics and edge, other than IoT</p>
<p id="x020" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Sebastian Kaebisch: Here is Sebastian. I am co-chair of WoT WG with Michael</p>
<p id="x021" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> ... I am very happy that this group is reactivated, outside of the standardization work for the community to meet</p>
<p id="x023" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> ... looking forward for new activities here</p>
<p id="x024" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Dogan Fennibay: I am from Siemens, from smart infrastructure. I am interested in a non fragmented way to do IoT</p>
<p id="x025" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Daniel Peintner: I am from Siemens. I am active in working group. I am looking forward to see the community grow</p>
<p id="x026" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> ... it was lacking before</p>
<p id="x027" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Gregorio Monari: I am from Vaimee. I am here to learn more WoT, happy to be with the beautiful people here</p>
<p id="x028" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Kazuyuki Ashimura: I am from W3C. Team contact for the WG and IG. I am an observer today</p>
<p id="x029" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Tomoaki Mizushima: I am Tomoaki 
Mizushima. From Internet Research Institute. I am co-editor of profile 
and use cases. Also co-chair of WoT Japanese CG</p>
<p id="x030" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> ... we talked about WoT with japanese</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id="t02">Draft CG Charter</h3>
<p id="x032" class="summary"><a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Fa9tSp_xSOtJnKN2AV5qcJf7JUCNHO9D/edit?usp=sharing&amp;ouid=106655031772979203612&amp;rtpof=true&amp;sd=true">Slides</a></p>
<p id="x033" class="summary"><a href="https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/w3c/charter-drafts/859914558bad9052cd33d42c5418be9516d6ed29/2022/wot-cg-2022.html">Rendered version</a></p>
<p id="x034" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi: the idea behind externalizing the documents, is to make it easier to maintain them</p>
<p id="x035" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi: we have updated the image to reflect how to arrange the collaboration in the future</p>
<p id="x036" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi: we can give feedback to the WG, like how something is difficult to implement</p>
<p id="x037" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi: we will try to reach out to other CGs in the W3C</p>
<p id="x038" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi: it might be easier to let others join plugfest like events</p>
<p id="x039" class="irc"><cite>&lt;Ege&gt;</cite> Cristiano Aguzzi: we want to support newcomers</p>
<p id="x044" class="phone s01"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> given this proposed diagram, we need to clarify the relationship among the three groups: WoT IG, WoT WG and WoT CG<br>
<span id="x045">… also my question is: do we still need the WoT IG if the WoT CG can handle most of the IG work</span></p>
<p id="x050" class="phone s02"><cite>Michael McCool:</cite> we can let the CG work and decide later to revise IG<br>
<span id="x051">… and see how a venue fits or not</span></p>
<p id="x052" class="phone s03"><cite>Sebastian Kaebisch:</cite> we should leave IG mainly for collaboration between the IG and other SDOs</p>
<p id="x053" class="phone s04"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> I like McCool's suggestion. we should resolve conflicts</p>
<p id="x058" class="phone s05"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> we can be the first contact for other SDOs and then direct them to IG<br>
<span id="x059">… we do not compete with WoT IG or WG</span><br>
<span id="x060">… outreach is a horizontal activity</span></p>
<p id="x065" class="phone s06"><cite>Kazuyuki Ashimura:</cite> once cg clarifies the scope, we should talk with CG contact and project team contact from W3C<br>
<span id="x066">… w3c management as well</span><br>
<span id="x067">… ig and wg activity is defined by the process document, CG is not</span><br>
<span id="x068">… so we need to talk with this proposal with the W3C Team as well</span></p>
<p id="x069" class="phone s07"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> we have it as a next work item</p>
<p id="x070" class="phone s05"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> we also want to organize some meeting in TPAC as well</p>
<p id="x071" class="irc"><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> Kazuyuki Ashimura: in that case, 
maybe you're a bit late. there was a specific procedure for Chairs 
(including CG Chairs) to ask the Event Team to allocate a meeting during
 TPAC</p>
<p id="x074" class="phone s05"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> we want to organize monthly events after TPAC<br>
<span id="x075">… and publish polished versions of the minutes for others to digest</span></p>
<p id="x076" class="phone s07"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> CG work restarts after TPAC</p>
<p id="x077" class="phone s05"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> you can open issues and send emails</p>
<p id="x079" class="phone s04"><cite>Philipp Blum:</cite> I would like to present something in regards of a chat solution etc. next meeting</p>
<p id="x081" class="phone s05"><cite>Cristiano Aguzzi:</cite> I propose to adjourn the call. Thank you all for attending!</p>
<p id="x082" class="phone s07"><cite>Ege Korkan:</cite> Thank you all, see you in the next meeting</p>
<p id="x083" class="irc"><cite>&lt;kaz&gt;</cite> [adjourned]</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html">scribe.perl</a> version 192 (Tue Jun 28 16:55:30 2022 UTC).</address>

<div class="diagnostics">
<h2>Diagnostics</h2>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: i|https|-&gt; 
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Fa9tSp_xSOtJnKN2AV5qcJf7JUCNHO9D/edit?usp=sharing&amp;ouid=106655031772979203612&amp;rtpof=true&amp;sd=true
 Slides|</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/W3C's approval/to talk with this proposal with the W3C Team as well/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: i/we want to organize monthly/Kazuyuki Ashimura: in that
 case, maybe you're a bit late. there was a specific procedure for 
Chairs (including CG Chairs) to ask the Event Team to allocate a meeting
 during TPAC/</p>
<p class="warning">Succeeded: s/I would like to propose a chat solution 
in the next meeting/I would like to present something in regards of a 
chat solution etc. next meeting/</p>
<p class="warning">Maybe present: ca, ek, ka, kaz, mm, pb, sk</p>
</div>


</body><grammarly-desktop-integration data-grammarly-shadow-root="true"></grammarly-desktop-integration></html>